before I begin let me tell you something
interesting
I took the IELTS on the weekend and I've
got to say it wasn't the best experience
I've ever had it wasn't then wasn't the
happiest day of my life I'll tell you
that much I got up at 6:45 I think I
slept for about two hours the night
before just I didn't have a good sleep
had McDonald's for breakfast you
probably shouldn't do that either you
definitely need to have some substantial
food in your stomach because my god it's
a it's an exhausting exam so I went to
the Melbourne Convention Center there's
like 600 people there and I I took the
IELTS academic so what we're going to do
in this live class is I memorize the the
line graphs that we did in the real exam
on Saturday so we're going to do that
today
it was tough I let me just show you what
what was in the real exam because it was
a real doozy it was a real doozy so in
this one we're gonna good IELTS academic
writing task 1 we're going to look at
multiple line graphs yes you heard me
correctly multiple line graphs so on
Saturday I opened up my test paper and
this is what I saw just look at this for
a few seconds and try and wrap your head
around this and think about how you
might structure or begin to write your
150 word description if this is what was
in front of you I don't know about you
but I hope in the test paper and I
looked at it and I thought oh my god
I've never seen three line graphs for
IELTS I've seen two and two is fine I
know how to do two that's three and each
of them has their own trajectory their
own line their own trend so let's have a
closer look at this so the mission for
this live class is I want you to write a
well-structured
relevant and high-scoring task 1 that's
what we're going to do first of all we
need to read the description of those
graphs so before we completely freak out
if you do read that sentence there it
does describe the graphs it says the
line graphs show the value of
Australia's trade with China the USA in
Japan from 2002 to 2005 in Australian
dollars in billions in billions of
Australian dollars let's break this down
because this got me on test day I just
look at this for quite a while so first
of all the line graphs yeah that's right
there's there's one two and and there
was a third one down here okay so they
show the value of Australia's trade okay
so trade must be imports and exports
that's what trade means and the value is
here and it's in Australian dollars
billions of Australian dollars so this
is five billion Australian dollars this
is 3.5 billion Australian dollars so if
we look here and at this at the export
with the USA it's about 2.4 billion
dollars Australian dollars okay and it's
from 2002 to 2005 and there's the years
there so we've really got how many
points of data 1 2 3 & 4 pretty
difficult and what we need to do of
course is to summarize the information
by selecting and reporting the main
features and make comparisons where
relevant by the way I don't have my
score yet but I will let you know how I
go I'm not holding my breath I wanted to
get nines I want to get 9 9 9 9 in the
IELTS but I don't know if that's
actually possible I hope it's possible
and I'd like to get that just so I can
sort of you know think that this exam is
not entirely impossible but we'll see
I'll let you know right so we need a
structure for this one now I used a
different structure on test day my
structure was still good it was still a
solid piece of writing but I went home
after after I wrote that and I thought
we need to structure this differently
I could have done it slightly better to
be honest I could have done it slightly
better so I want to teach you that
slightly better structure the slightly
better structure if you're looking at
three graphs now whether it be three pie
charts or three line graphs or three bar
charts or three that's probably all
you'll get you want to structure it like
this so we want to have a summary
sentence at the beginning I'll show you
how to write that that's pretty easy
then we want to just write a description
and a comparison of each graph so really
the second part here is just going to be
in that Chinese that graph about imports
and exports or trade to China then we're
going to separate it and write a
separate third paragraph about the trade
with the USA and then one with Japan so
usually what I've been teaching you is
to write the summary and then to write
an overall description and then to write
a comparison write a comparison
paragraph and this one is that is the
big one but I think a better structure
way to do it like this summary China you
write both a description for the first
sentence then some detail detailed
comparison of the exports and imports
you do the same for the USA and the same
for Japan so this is what your writing
should look like on test day if you get
three graphs like three pie charts or
three line graphs for example so let me
just quickly show you again so we're
gonna have a summary sentence that's
where you rewrite that description in
your own words then we'll talk about
China we have a description sentence and
then the comparison of the data between
the exports and the imports USA will
have a descriptive sentence just a
general description of the trends and
then we'll compare the data Japan same
thing general description of the first
sentence then we'll compare the data and
I think this is the best type of
structure for this if you get one of
these on test day so let's write the
summary
first all we need to do is rewrite the
description in your own words to say the
exact same thing it's quite difficult
let's read the description again it says
the line graphs show the value of
Australia's trade with China the USA in
Japan from 2002 to 2005 in billions of
Australian dollars so I wrote this I
wrote the line graphs represent how much
Australia imported from and exported to
China the USA and Japan in terms of
billions of Australian dollars your turn
you have three minutes to write this
description
you're saying
if you're on YouTube and you're not
getting this live stream please refresh
your browser Kumar on YouTube well done
that's a great description I'll read it
in a second actually
[Music]
all right let's have a quick look at
some of these introductory sentence the
given line graphs represent Australia's
import and exports plural and exports
with three countries including China the
USA in Japan from 2002 to 2005 in
billions of Australian dollars in
brackets AUD GU I like it well done yup
good okay good so instead of trade you
said imports and exports that's fine
because that's what trade means I didn't
really like to be perfectly honest with
you're not an economist I didn't really
ever think about that until Saturday
anyway the line graphs indicate
indicated they don't indicate present
simple in your introductory sentence
because it's rip shows didn't show that
it's not in the past the line graphs are
that the line graphs indicate not a
great verb represent illustrate depict
but not indicate depict Australia's
marketing system no it's not a marketing
system it's trade its imports and
exports it's not a marketing system so
you'll definitely lose a few points
right you need this first sentence is so
critical because the IELTS examiner has
three minutes to mark your writing or
probably less so that first sentence we
need to get right because we want to
impress them immediately and the first
sentence really shows whether you
understood or understand those graphs or
not as well so it's it's critical the
given information on the line graphs
represent the worth of Australia's
commerce possibly a synonym for trade
I'm not sure again I'm not an economist
with China the United States and Japan
over four years good one more these
graphs illustrate a trait Australia's
international trade among China the USA
in Japan between 2002 and 2005 in AUD
billions
good good nice nice nice nice nice
that's the easy part
that's the easy part right now we're
gonna look at China we're going to look
at that one graph China what we're going
to do is this we're going to describe
the general trends in one sentence the
general trends of the imports and
exports in one sentence just an like an
overview sentence to to introduce the
paragraph then we're going to write two
to four sentences where we where we
detail we use detail so this one's
general this one's general general trend
one sentence and here we describe slash
compare and we're going to use the the
y-axis okay we're going to use the y
axis and the x axis for example okay so
we're going to look at this just give
yourself 30 seconds to understand this
look at this and understand it
all right so what what can you see here
what can you see so let's just think
about general trends first okay so let's
look at imports
well imports did this this have
decreased and then increased okay and
what about exports what happened well
they fluctuated so okay so they sort of
went up and then down and then up again
that's a fluctuation so there's a
decrease and increase in imports and a
fluctuation in exports well there you
have it that's our first sentence
because we're just describing it very
generally we're going to say imports
decrease before increasing while exports
fluctuated okay that's the first
sentence because it introduces the
paragraph where we then go into detail
and we start to look at the numbers and
the years and whatnot I mean and we look
at it specifically okay so okay fine
let's do this let me just quickly read
your mind Australia's trade with China
was quite erratic both imports and
exports fluctuated in 2002 imports okay
this is where I start to get specific in
2002 imports fell from approximately 4.3
billion to 2.5 billion there was then a
steady increase to 4.5 billion in 2005
exports increased from 2.4 billion in
2002 to nearly 4.5 billion in 2003
before dropping to around 2.2 billion in
2004 ending in 2005 and around 2.7 5
billion dollars you have no idea that
means because you're not looking at the
graph that's cool I want you to do two
things one write a general description
of the trends in one sentence two in two
to four sentences I want you to compare
describe and compare the imports and the
exports over the 4-year period you have
five minutes to do this
you
Oh get okie hmm
yeah it's probably probably feeling what
I felt on Saturday after I wrote the
assessor oh my god
can it get any more difficult well that
one of the three was the most difficult
because the other trends were quite
similar and less tricky but how did you
go let me just have a quick look at some
of your paragraphs here okay okay okay
okay the important export of Australia
differs markedly among the four-year
period in which the import decrease rap
okay I this is hard it's really hard I'm
gonna reach it try and find a good one
here overall trade with China imports
and exports both showed a fluctuation
trend imports started with a slight
decrease okay imports started with a
slight decrease from about 4.5 billion
in 2002 to 2.5 billion in 2003 there was
a significant increase to 2 billion
between 2003 to 2005 okay good that's
okay that's that's looking pretty good
that's looking pretty good you're on the
right track there Australia's trade with
China fluctuated between 2002 and 2005
that's a great opening descriptive
sentence Australia's trade with China
fluctuated between 2000 to 2005
excellent here we go in 2002 the imports
accounted for nearly 4.2 billion and the
exports were just below 2.5 billion the
figures for imports reached a low of two
point five before increasing gradually
to around 4.5 by 2005 exports which blah
blah blah you can see what's going on
there good you good
it's tough it's really tough all right
let's keep going there because I think
you're on the right track just before we
do actually forget liking this video let
me redo this again I want you I want to
show you this again I want to show you
this again here we go so here's my
opening descriptive sentence just a
general sentence Australia's trade with
China was quite erratic which means
another way for fluctuating both imports
and exports fluctuate okay so that's my
introductory sentence okay and then I
started okay so I said in 2002 and then
my subject was imports and there's my
verb imports fowl okay this sentence is
a little bit different there was then a
steady increase blah blah blah blah
he is my subject exports increased okay
and then the sentence gets complex do
you think about your subjects and your
verbs because the subject here is going
to be imports or it's going to be
exports now what do they do well that's
the verb they're going to increase
they're going to decrease increase or
decrease they're going to remain stable
et cetera so when you're writing your
sentences think about subject and verb
what's going to be the subject of your
sentence because it's not going to be
2002 that's just additional information
right now you can like the video if
you're enjoying this video please click
like comment subscribe and if you're
feeling very generous you can share this
among your friends cool now let's look
at the USA and we'll do the same thing
describe general trends just let me ask
a question though you really need to
practice your IELTS writing with a pen
and paper it's a very very different
experience on test day when you sit down
with a with a pencil a gray lip pencil
and you need to write handwrite this
thing so if you if you're writing this
on YouTube into the comments that's fine
it's very good practice because
can understand how to structure it and
and and get your sentences right etc but
if you're practicing this seriously and
you're taking your exam sir and really
get out of pencil and a piece of paper
and do this cool I hope you're doing
that that's fine
right let's do the same thing trade with
USA let's first look at it and analyze
it so we know what's going on okay let's
look at imports the blue lines and what
imports do well there was a slight
increase and then a slight decrease
wasn't there so let's have a look at the
the y-axis here uh-oh I think I'm gonna
lose my screen OOP there it goes excuse
me let's look at this again I want to
sort of okay so 2002 it was about what
it was about I don't know 1.6 you don't
have to be precise you can say
approximately one point six in 2003 it
was about I don't know one point seven I
guess one point six - one point seven
and then there was a further increased
in 2004 up to about what's this two
point two point three maybe two point
three billion dollars and then it
decreased down here - what's this just
about about two point two billion
dollars something like that
so one point six to one point seven to
two point three to two point two okay
fine so you can say there was a gradual
increase and then a slight decrease
that's gonna be your opening sentence
while exports follow this very similar
trajectory as well so you can just
mirror those two and they almost follow
the exact same trajectory with about two
billion dollar or a billion dollars
between them in terms of difference here
oopsie that's my wrong one don't read
that read one that's Japan let's read
this one here instead Australia's trade
with the USA was more consistent so
that's my opening sentence it's just
general description of those trends that
was more consistent this one was erratic
this one was consistent okay then I said
imports increased from just above 1.5
billion there's my subject
it increased from just above 1.5 billion
in 2002 to close to 2.5 billion in 2004
before decreasing slightly in 2005 in
comparison exports subject-verb
increased from nearly 2.5 billion in
2002 to a high of three billion 2004
before falling to around two point seven
five billion in 2005 so in other words
I've described what happened in those
graphs your turn you'll have five
minutes now to describe the general
trends of the imports and exports in a
single sentence and then in two to four
sentences go into detail use the
information from the y-axis time
startsnow
whoops ain't sorry
sorry about that little technical thing
image again you all still here okay good
who's writing this on paper if you're
writing this on paper can you just put
into the chat just write paper I'm just
curious
okay good good idea yeah good idea
only one only two of you okay okay okay
okay oh no a few looking fine mmm I
strongly recommend writing me some paper
the IELTS is a really tactile test not
just the writing but the reading as well
like flicking between the pages to find
the answers are it's mad it's mad it's
mad
all right good well done well done well
done good okay let's do a little
calculation because remember we're only
going to spend 20 minutes on this task
so we spent three minutes writing the
summary sentence we spent five minutes
on the first paragraph five minutes on
the second paragraph we're now up to 13
minutes okay we're gonna spend excuse me
five more minutes on the next paragraph
that'll bring us up to 18 minutes on
test day you probably I don't know but I
I spent about 22 minutes on this task
because it was really tricky and I had
to think about the structure before I
started so we've got five more minutes
to write the paragraph on Japan come on
so we're gonna describe the general
trends in a sentence just a very simple
sentence then we're going to go into
detail and compare describe and compare
the imports and the exports in two to
four sentences okay so let's have a look
at Australia's trade with Japan and
let's look at imports first okay
imports fine so what have we got here so
in 2002 it's about I don't know point
eight billion dollars something like
that then it increases very slightly and
we could
it's probably 0.9 billion dollars here
then it increases quite significantly in
2004 to about 1.3 billion dollars before
sort of tapering off to about 1.4
billion dollars okay that's the detailed
description that you want to write let's
just look at the detailed description of
exports so exports in 2002 were I don't
know what's this one point maybe 1.2
billion dollars increasing slightly to
about 1.4 billion dollars then it
increased well significantly drastically
it might be a drastic increase here up -
what is it - point I don't know let's
say 2.6 billion dollars before
what's this corner this is called
plateauing which by the way spelling is
Plateau a plateau plateau wing you can
write as a verb if you want plateauing
at the same number two point six billion
okay okay and the IELTS examiner's look
for little features like this so I want
to say the word Plateau or stabilize
stabilize well English Australian with
the s American with the Z stabilize cool
so we've got that whoopsie sorry we go
back where am i right let me show you
what I wrote just keep this graph in
mind keep this in mind while I read this
one here both important from and exports
to Japan both showed growth that's a
terrible sentence because of it the word
both twice so let me get rid of this
both both imports from an exports to
Japan showed growth while exports grew
from just over 1 billion dollars in 2002
to over 2.5 billion in 2004 they then
plateaued similarly imports from Japan
grew slightly from 2002 to 2003 before a
steady increase to around 1.6 billion
dollars in 2005 now what's happened here
is I can write this one a bit more
simply than the others because it's a
simpler if we look again at imports it
really is just an increase
there's no decreases here it's all it's
all up right so I can say overall
imports increase from and I can just put
the first figure in here at point six or
whatever it was - and then I can put the
final figure in here at what is this one
point seven one point seven billion
dollars so I can I can skip 2003 and
2004 I can I just say imports from Japan
grew from point six billion dollars to
one point seven billion dollars over the
four-year period and I can write that
quite simply and you know what that's
not a bad idea because my word count now
is already at about a hundred and twenty
words so I'm pretty close to hundred and
fifty and remember I've only got twenty
minutes so I can if I want to simplify
this last paragraph that's a good thing
as for this one I can say well exports
grew from just over 1 million dollars to
two point five I can skip 2003 before
stabilizing to 2005 I can add that extra
sentence in there cool your turn five
minutes away you go and time starts now
okay that was five minutes we're gonna
be up to hmm 18 minutes now so we have a
quick look at the chat here overall the
import and exports of Australia to Japan
followed a rather what's this really it
makes what's in Australia to Japan
followed a rather similar trend good in
which they showed steady growth good
well done that's a great great overall
introductory sentence there they both
show steady birth fine
however the export is all the time
higher than the import that sentence is
probably unnecessary the imports
demonstrated growth from point eight
billion Australian dollars in 2002 to
one point four in 2005 however in terms
of exports have revealed a very slight
growth of 0.1 billion dollars in the
first year that's fine you can do that
you can sort of do the subtractions if
you like there's another way to sort of
look at this and you can say okay
instead of saying this group from this
to this from and to instead of using
from and to from X to Y X dollars and Y
dollars you can say it grew by
approximately 0.4 it grew by well it
grew by Z dollars yeah see the
difference then a group a group from 1.2
to 1.4 or you can just say it grew by
0.3 okay well done whoever did that
that's fine you can do that do that just
let me have another look at a few
sentences here during the 2004 in 2003
imports during 2004 and 2003 you should
go 2003 and 2004 imports and exports
slightly grew while exports had taken
key okay okay that's right it's all
about practice this really is about
practice this thing it's a bit of a
beast it's a bit of a beast the IELTS
but you can do it you can do it you can
all right let's quickly recap before I
go to Q&A and answer some of your
questions what have we learned well we
should do a test a is there's one
summarized by rewriting the description
in your own words now if you happen to
have three graphs in front of you you
should use this structure where you
describe and compare graph one let's
just say whatever it may be it's not
China maybe it's ice cream so there
should be graph one okay G one on test a
yours probably will be different
describe and compare graph to describe
and compare graph three if you get a
three-part graph use this structure now
what are you going to compare well
remember on ours that had imports and
exports but maybe it will be maybe it
will be men and women maybe it will be I
don't know I don't know Manchester
United and Chelsea who knows who knows
what it would be but there will be some
form of comparison going on in each of
those graphs and also it might be a
three pie chart it might be three bar
graphs or as we saw tonight it might be
three line graphs so on test day this is
what my paper would look like if I use
this structure I used a different
structure let me read it to you from
beginning to end actually let's see how
boring it gets let me try to read it the
line graphs represent how much Australia
imported from and exported to China the
USA in Japan in terms of billions of
Australian dollars Australia's trade
with China was quite erratic both
imports and exports fluctuated in 2002
imports blah-blah-blah-blah-blah
let me just read it like that I'm going
to read you the first sentence now we're
up to here Australia's trade with the
USA was more consistent imports
increased from blah blah blah blah blah
blah blah blah blah blah lastly now
we're talking about Japan both imports
from an exports to Japan both showed
growth while exports grew from just over
blah blah blah blah blah you can see
what I'm doing here you have the general
description then you have the
detail and ladies and gentlemen the
devil is in the detail as they say now
II to language join the live classes
just go to e to language comm that sign
up for the live classes and I have a
question for you we're thinking of doing
more live classes and we're thinking of
giving you a downloadable PDF workbook
that you can bring to the live classes
so you'll print that out in your office
or in your home and every day this is
just an idea so please let me know what
you think put it into the comments below
if you'd like this idea every day Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday we
would do a different academic writing
task 1 so line graphs Monday pie charts
Tuesday tables Wednesday you bring your
workbook and the live class happens and
you watch J or one of the other teachers
and you write your tasks one into your
workbook does that sound good
just let me know I'm just curious okay
nobody's saying it sounds good so maybe
it's a crazy when will you give the PDF
well we have to make it but we might
start this in a couple of weeks so just
please let me know what you think into
the comments below right now though
let's let's let's let's let's do a
little QA if you have any questions
please let me know I'm just looking at
the YouTube live chat here
okay yes that's good preparation says
nasara okay
okay so people liking an idea that's
cool any questions here on YouTube okay
is it important to make compound-complex
sentences says Lia on YouTube the answer
is you need to have a mixture of short
simple sentences like the description
opening sentence then when you're
comparing you should use complex
sentences don't worry too much about
what that means compound-complex
sentences it just means not writing all
of your sentences short and simple
are you sure shortly and simply oh my
god anyway let's move on J why not have
a PDF for grammar sessions it's easy to
follow the videos with the PDF that's a
good idea too I like this I write but
there is no reading why please the
writing is not reached do I have
technique problem mmm possibly looks
like some people were struggling a bit I
like your idea I want to know what is
your timing each day thank you very much
from suti okay all right should we need
to write our conclusion in writing task
1 asks nusrah no first of all there's no
conclusion we're not concluding anything
when we use when we write a conclusion
we're usually giving out it's in an
essay and we're giving our opinion and
we conclude all of our arguments so I'd
like to conclude my arguments but here
we're not arguing we're describing so
there's no conclusion at all
you can if you're under the word count
if you write less than 150 words you can
include a final sentence which is like
another summary sentence which just
recaps the main trends you can save that
in your back pocket if you're under the
word count but I don't think you should
be with this with these structures okay
the essay I'm gonna make a little video
in a second I'm gonna put that on
YouTube I want you to watch that about
the about the essay because I have a I
have a theory of why so many people get
6 and 6.5 in IELTS writing I think I
know why
having done that exam joy L why do mini
score well in academic and low in
general IELTS I don't know I've never
heard that before
cool guys I'm gonna leave it there
because I've got to go and eat my
chicken sog and my garlic naan bread for
dinner thanks very much for coming along
I appreciate it
hope it was helpful do click like and
share this if you're on YouTube and keep
practising guys you'll get there I
once's is a really complex thing that um
you can do it cool see you guys soon
you